Editorial review: Information about User-Agent reduction (#41648)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/guides/user-agent_reduction/index.md

The following are much more reliable strategies for working around bugs and differing browser support:

- [Feature detection](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Testing/Feature_detection): Detecting support for a feature, rather than the browser version.
- [Progressive enhancement](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Progressive_Enhancement): Providing a baseline of essential content and functionality to as many users as possible, while delivering the best possible experience to browsers that can run all the required code.

Also see [Browser detection using the user agent](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Browser_detection_using_the_user_agent) for more information on why serving different content to different browsers is usually a bad idea.

## Requesting detailed UA information via client hints

You may still have code that relies on detailed UA string data, which can't be coverted to use feature detection or progressive enhancement. Examples include fine-grained logging, fraud prevention measures, or a software help site that serves different content based on the user's device type.

> If this is the case, you can still access detailed UA string data via [`Sec-CH-UA-*`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers#user_agent_client_hints) headers (aka **User-Agent client hints**) and other headers besides. The headers provide a safer, more privacy-preserving way to send such information because servers have to opt in to the pieces of information they want, rather it being sent all the time through the `User-Agent` string. It also provides access to a wider selection of information.

Author: I think I can probably just delete it. I was thinking of headers that aren't `Sec-CH-UA-*` but can still be requested like client hints, like `Save-Data`. But it did sound wishy washy.

I've included a note mentioning the JavaScript option and linked to the section that covers it in more detail.

Client hints are used like so:

1. When the browser first makes a request to load a webpage, it will send the reduced `User-Agent` header (as detailed earlier) to the server.
2. Additionally, it will send the server a default set of `Sec-CH-UA-*` headers. The Android example we looked at earlier would send the following:

   ```http
   Sec-CH-UA: "Chrome"; v="143"
   Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Android"
   Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?1
   ```

   These headers provide the following information:
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA")}}: The major browser version.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Platform")}}: The platform.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Mobile")}}: A boolean that indicates whether the browser is running on a mobile device (`?1`) or not (`?0`).

3. The server can request additional client hints using the {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} response header, which contains a comma-delimited list of the headers it would like to receive in subsequent requests. For example:

   ```http
   Accept-CH: Sec-CH-UA, Sec-CH-UA-Platform, Sec-CH-UA-Mobile, Sec-CH-UA-Model, Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors
   ```

>    Here we've requested the default set of headers. We do this because each subsequent `Accept-CH` setting overrides the previous one, and we want to continue to receive the default information _in addition_ to the newly-requested information:

Reviewer: > We do this because each subsequent `Accept-CH` setting overrides the previous one,

This is true for high-entropy hints but _not_ the default, low-entropy ones (those will get sent no matter what you request, or don't request). So we can either remove UA, Platform, and Mobile or rewrite this.

Author: Ah, I misunderstood this. I've rewritten it to make it clear that the defaults are always sent. I've also added a definition of low- and high-entropy hints in a note, as it is useful to understand.

   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Model")}}: The device model the platform is running on.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors")}}: The device's form factor(s), which indicate how the user interacts with the user-agent — the screen size, controls, etc.

4. If the browser is permitted to send the server all the requested information, it will do so along with all subsequent requests until the browser or tab is closed. For example, our example Android phone might send the following updated headers with subsequent requests:

   ```http
   Sec-CH-UA: "Chrome"; v="143"
   Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Android"
   Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?1
   Sec-CH-UA-Model: "Pixel 9"
   Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors: "Mobile"
   ```

Since these are hints, the browser may choose to ignore some of all of the server's requests for more information. In addition, the browser may be blocked from sending some or all of the information by various security features such as {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}}.

> [EDITORIAL: IS THIS TRUE? I READ THIS SOMEWHERE, BUT I CAN'T FIND ANY INFO ANYWHERE ON WHAT CAN BLOCK BROWSERS FROM SENDING CLIENT HINTS. WHAT CLIENT FEATURES CAN BLOCK SENDING CLIENT HINTS?]

Reviewer: Kinda true - see https://wicg.github.io/client-hints-infrastructure/#policy-controlled-features

Most client hints can only be sent by default for the top-level site (except the default, low-entropy ones). In order to send them across cross-site frame boundaries, you have to opt in specific origins via Permissions Policy.

And besides disabling them via commandline parameters, there's no other way to prevent them from getting sent in Chrome (maybe possible via an extension? I haven't kept up with Manifest v3 changes, so not sure).

The following are much more reliable strategies for working around bugs and differing browser support:

- [Feature detection](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Testing/Feature_detection): Detecting support for a feature, rather than the browser version.
- [Progressive enhancement](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Progressive_Enhancement): Providing a baseline of essential content and functionality to as many users as possible, while delivering the best possible experience to browsers that can run all the required code.

Also see [Browser detection using the user agent](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Browser_detection_using_the_user_agent) for more information on why serving different content to different browsers is usually a bad idea.

## Requesting detailed UA information via client hints

You may still have code that relies on detailed UA string data, which can't be coverted to use feature detection or progressive enhancement. Examples include fine-grained logging, fraud prevention measures, or a software help site that serves different content based on the user's device type.

> If this is the case, you can still access detailed UA string data via [`Sec-CH-UA-*`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers#user_agent_client_hints) headers (aka **User-Agent client hints**). The headers provide a safer, more privacy-preserving way to send such information because servers have to opt in to the pieces of information they want, rather it being sent all the time through the `User-Agent` string. It also provides access to a wider selection of information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this is the case, you can still access detailed UA string data via [`Sec-CH-UA-*`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers#user_agent_client_hints) headers (also known as **User-Agent client hints**). The headers provide a safer, more privacy-preserving way to send such information because servers have to opt in to the pieces of information they want, rather it being sent all the time through the `User-Agent` string. It also provides access to a wider selection of information.
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can also [access client hint information via JavaScript](#accessing_client_hints_via_javascript).

Client hints are used like so:

1. When the browser first makes a request to load a webpage, it will send the reduced `User-Agent` header (as detailed earlier) to the server.

> 2. Additionally, it will send the server a default set of `Sec-CH-UA-*` headers. The Android example we looked at earlier would send the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Additionally, it will send the server a default set of `Sec-CH-UA-*` headers this set of hints are referred to as the [low entropy hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints#low_entropy_hints)). The Android example we looked at earlier would send the following:
```

   ```http
   Sec-CH-UA: "Google Chrome";v="143", "Chromium";v="143", "Not A(Brand";v="24"
   Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Android"
   Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?1
   ```

   These headers provide the following information:
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA")}}: The major browser version and other brands associated with it.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Platform")}}: The platform.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Mobile")}}: A boolean that indicates whether the browser is running on a mobile device (`?1`) or not (`?0`).

3. The server can request additional client hints using the {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} response header, which contains a comma-delimited list of the additional headers it would like to receive in subsequent requests. For example:

   ```http
   Accept-CH: Sec-CH-UA-Model, Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors
   ```

>    The default set of headers are always sent. In addition to those, we've also requested:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The default "low entropy" headers are always sent. In addition to those, we've also requested:
```

   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Model")}}: The device model the platform is running on.
   - {{httpheader("Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors")}}: The device's form factor(s), which indicate how the user interacts with the user-agent — the screen size, controls, etc.

4. If the browser is permitted to send the server all the requested information, it will do so along with all subsequent requests until the browser or tab is closed. For example, our example Android phone might send the following updated headers with subsequent requests:

   ```http
   Sec-CH-UA: "Google Chrome";v="143", "Chromium";v="143", "Not A(Brand";v="24"
   Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Android"
   Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?1
   Sec-CH-UA-Model: "Pixel 9"
   Sec-CH-UA-Form-Factors: "Mobile"
   ```

For more information, see [User-Agent client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints).

> ### Low- and high-entropy hints

Reviewer 2: Link to the high/low entropy sections in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Client_hints#low_entropy_hints

Client hints are divided in low-entropy and high-entropy hints:

- The default hints are considered low-entropy hints because they don't give away much information that could be used to fingerprint a user.

> - All other hints are considered high-entropy — they could potentially be used for fingerprinting, so they are controlled by user preferences or by preferences such as {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}}.

Author: It's not really a good idea to include it in MDN if it's currently only theoretical. I've updated it to

> "...for fingerprinting, so they are controlled by {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}} headers.

### Browser detection

Theoretically the UA string is useful for detecting the browser and serving code to work around browser-specific bugs or lack of feature support. However, this is **unreliable** and **is not recommended**:

- Future browsers will fix bugs and add support for new features, so your browser detection code will need to be regularly updated to avoid locking out browsers that do actually support the features you are testing for. [Feature detection](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Extensions/Testing/Feature_detection) is a much more reliable strategy.
- You really have no guarantee that the user agent advertised by this property is really the one your site is loaded in. Browser vendors can basically do what they like with the UA string, and some browsers enable users to change the value of this field if they want (**UA spoofing**).

> - Browser detection lead to a situation where browsers had to return fake values from such properties in order not to be locked out of some websites.

Reviewer 2: The tense and tone is different in the final bullet than the others. Maybe merge them.

Note, one reason I love sentence breaks is that it makes reviewing long line updates much easier.

```suggestion
- You really have no guarantee that the user agent advertised by this property is really the one your site is loaded in. Browser vendors can basically do what they like with the UA string, and historically would return fake values from such properties in order not to be locked out of some websites.
  Some browsers enable users to change the value of this field if they want (**UA spoofing**).
```

Author: Updated, except that I made the last sentence into its own bullet. I think it works as its own reason why browser detection is unreliable and should be avoided.
